# Control of Wheeled Mobile Robot using Computer Vision
In today’s developing technology, industries are playing important role for the betterment of life and society. But in industries many functions are running under hazardous conditions, so demand of human free interaction arises, which can be fulfilled by robotics. In Chemical, Oil & Gas, Petrochemicals and many manufacturing industries today we need human safety on head, and it can be done by robots. This paper implies such type of mobile robot which can be used in complex industries. The work is based on Image processing and Centroid Algorithm. The physical quantities like (temperature, pressure, humidity, stress, PH) and leakage of gases and liquids, fire, spark and many human safety related things which can be encountered by this mobile robot. By using this robot, the main achievement is human safety and simultaneously cost effective, precision and all far away data can be easily available through IoT (Cloud). Also, it works without any disincentive at particular of desired time in day or night, where particular place requires physical quantities measurement. In this project the main components are Controller (Raspberry Pi), Four DC Motor for each wheel, Pi Camera for image detection and processing, motor driver logic and physical quantities sensor.

# METHODOLOGY
To attain this project centroid algorithm is implemented so that the robot can follow the desired path. This robot is mainly designed for hazardous industry purpose. To get the data as well as pictures at certain time so, by doing the time settings in robot, it can automatically go and take the data at that present time. This is accomplished using image processing, at first video is converted in to frames with format ‘BGR’ Image. The program is written in language called Python i.e. high-level language. Here, robot is design to follow black line, which is denoted by Image= (0, 0, 0), (75, 75, 75). In GPIO Board different pins are set for individual motors that are attached to four wheels. From open computer vision platform, erode command is used for noise cancellation. The contour of black line is detected using ‘find contours’ command [5]. Through this the angle of black line is detected i.e. when the robot tilts right the angle is towards negative and when the robot tilts left then the angle is positive. After finding the contours the centroid of the black line is measured. Therefore, by taking centroid as a reference point, the angle is referred as positive or negative. The detection of path using camera captures is shown in image. The bounded rectangle captures the blackline in the numbers in red color shows the angle between camera and blackline. When angle is changed accordingly, output to motors also changes.



